
---
it's not just the cells that move, but material inside cells can also undergo motion.


all of the biological movements are due to the special enzymes called molecular motor proteins which interacts with cytoskeletal tracks
two types of tracks, one the larger diameter one called microtubules and the other-one called actin filaments

molecular motor examples: myosin (goes through actin track), dynein (goes through microtubule track), kinesin (goes through microtubule track)

these tracks are made of tubulin which are polarized due to which path has minus-end, plus-end. dyenin carries cargo from minues end(peripheral end) to plus-end (centrosom interior of the cell).for kinesin the path way is vice-versa


actin(slimmer width than microtubules) filament track: myosin
-------------------------------------------------------------

actin tends to be more cortical (mane bairer dike) on the other hand microtubule tends to be more interior


but these motor proteins that I talked about are famility of many different motor proteins. for example there can be kinesin-1, kinesin-2 ... I hope you get the understanding here!


Motor Protein's are actually enzymes!!
--------------------------------------
they hydrolyze ATP(is the fuel of majority of protein motors) adenosine tri phosphate
Hydrolyzing a molecule means using water to break a molecule into smaller pieces by cutting one of its chemical bonds.
Layman's example: It's like adding water to snip apart a chain into smaller links.

during the ATP hyrolysis cycle(ATP gets decomposed and then gets binded to ATP again) the structure of a protein motor's motor, changes which allows the motor to move further along the track.

/*

taken from chatgpt.
-------------------

Motor proteins act like molecular delivery trucks inside the cell. They carry cargo to the correct destination instead of letting it drift randomly.

Here are some common examples:

Motor protein	Examples of cargo	Where it transports
Kinesin	Vesicles, mitochondria, lysosomes, mRNA, proteins	Usually from the cell center toward the cell edge (plus end of microtubules)
Dynein	Endosomes, damaged organelles, signaling molecules, viruses (which some viruses hijack)	Usually from the cell edge back toward the nucleus (minus end of microtubules)
Myosin	Secretory vesicles, pigment granules, organelles	Along actin filaments, especially near the cell membrane

*/

compared to car engine, the protein motors are very much efficient in converting energies to productive work 60% vs 10%!! (I believe we have a lot to learn from protein motors motility so we could adapt something I guess!!)

relative to their size, protein motor's are faster than motor car!!



What do cytoskeletal motor's do in cells?