
Book important notes

using tensorboard to monitor training

 Chapter 12 explores and implements standard performance metrics and uses
 those metrics to identify weaknesses in the training done previously We then mitigate
 those flaws with an improved training set that uses data balancing and augmentation.


Part 3 is a single chapter on deployment. Chapter 15 provides an overview of how to
 deploy PyTorch models to a simple web service, embed them in a C++ program, or
 bring them to a mobile phone

end, Grokking Deep Learning (www.manning.com/books/grokking-deep-learning) is a
 great resource for developing a strong mental model and intuition about the mechanism
 underlying deep neural networks. For a thorough introduction and reference, we direct
 you to Deep Learning by Goodfellow et al. (www.deeplearningbook.org). A


GANs in Action  
Deep learning with Generative Adversarial Networks
7 reviews
Jakub Langr and Vladimir Bok
September 2019  ISBN 9781617295560  240 pages
printed in black & white
Available translations: Complex Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian, Simplified Chinese




Almost all of our example notebooks contain the following boilerplate in the first cell
 (some lines may be missing in early chapters), which we skip including in the book
 after this point:
 # In[1]:
 %matplotlib inline
 from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
 import numpy as np
 import torch
 import torch.nn as nn
 import torch.nn.functional as F
 import torch.optim as optim
 torch.set_printoptions(edgeitems=2)
 torch.manual_seed(123)




 Eli Stevens has spent the majority of his career working at startups in Silicon Valley,
 with roles ranging from software engineer (making enterprise networking appliances)
 to CTO (developing software for radiation oncology). At publication, he is working
 on machine learning in the self-driving-car industry.


Luca Antiga, Thomas Viehmann


Chapter 5 unveils how a program can learn
 from examples and how PyTorch supports this process.



chapter1 covers,
 How deep learning changes our approach to 
machine learning
  Understanding why PyTorch is a good fit for deep 
learning
  Examining a typical deep learning project





disingenuous? what is th words meaning?
conflate? what is the words meaning?

Rather, we’ve discovered a general class of algorithms
 3
4
 CHAPTER 1 Introducing deep learning and the PyTorch Library
 that are able to approximate complicated, nonlinear processes very, very effectively,
 which we can use to automate tasks that were previously limited to humans.



Edsger W. Dijkstra found that the question of whether machines could
 think was “about as relevant as the question of whether Submarines Can Swim.”1



 That general class of algorithms we’re talking about falls under the AI subcategory
 of deep learning, which deals with training mathematical entities named deep neural net
works by presenting instructive examples.





Until the last decade, the broader class of systems
that fell under the label machine learning relied heavily on feature engineering.



what makes deep learning so powerful?
the ability of a neural network to ingest data and extract useful
representations on the basis of examples is what makes deep learning so powerful.

 The focus of deep learning practitioners is not so much on handcrafting those repre
sentations, but on operating on a mathematical entity so that it discovers representa
tions from the training data autonomously
Often, these automatically created
 features are better than those that are handcrafted!


pytorch hub
zebra rodeo?

learning how to run a pretrained model using pytorch is  a useful skill.

imagenet (maintained by standford university), wordNet (a large lexical db of English language(maintained by priinceton university))



