AI_agents


papers to keep note:

1. chain of thought prompting elicits reasoning in LLM's

2. synergizing reasoning and acting in language models

3. toolformer: language models can teach themselves to use tools

4. generative agents: interactive simulation of human behavior


n8n, crewAI, langGraph these applications are based on the above research papers

on a general note, an agent is something that can take you from point A to point B and saves you time and money.

but car and plane can save you time right?

yes, but agent can make its own decision, an agent has its own plan too!

but a self driving car can make its own decision.

yes, but an agent has access to tools!
what are some examples of these tools. example: internet search, scrape a website(getting required info), draft an email, booking


using tools, agent plans and makes decision. while using tools, it communicates with the external environment.

an agent needs to have memory of what has happened in the past
an agent should be capable of receiving feedback from humans and improve accordingly


example:
imagine you wanna go for a trip of 7 days to florida. you currently reside in Bangladesh. instead of making decisions and planning
you utilize an agent!

if something can take from point a to point b by adding value(time and money), is capable of reasoning, decision, planning, uses external tools from environments to make decision, reason, plan, it has memory, human feedback and improve


why are we talking about this agentic AI now? why not before?
because we have just had the revolution of chatgpt.
the attention mechanism of 2017 paper and 2023, 2022 chatgpt led us to this. language understanding just takes agentic Ai to another level, thats why

LLM is also the foundational part of an AI agent (the most important one.)

an agent has different agency level.

minimal or simple agency level: an LLM interacting with a tool (but no planning or decision made)

there can be multi-step agent: lays out short plan and carries it step by step (personal travel planner that gathers flight options, hotels and local activities.)

there can be multi-agent: where one agentic workflow starts another agentic workflow
: example: travelplanner agent calling booking agent, then booking agent calling email agent



video analysis (analyze job interview videos to identify qualifying candidates) agent example:
search, visit-website, download-videos, transcripts, sentiment, ranking candidates



lecture-2
-------------

agents use LLMs for planning, reasoning and decision making. that's why it can be called the brain of AI-agents.
agents interact with the environment and they have memory.

why we call language model? why not next token prediction model?


gpt papers indicate that the more the number of parameters, the better the language model (high accuracy) able to do more amount of language tasks. (the scaling law of LLM's)

the larger the parameters, the more emergent properties arrive!


so why do llm's need more number of parameters? (they get emergent properties, learn language and meaning which one do you believe?)


why deepseek having less parameter performs as good as gpt? because deepseek introduced several architectural innovations like KV cache optimizations, multi-head-latent attention,

rotary positional encodings.

small LM's are the next bigthing specially for enterprise applications.


next lecture we'll look at an important paper related to the integration(reasoning and acting) of LLM with agents (ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models)







