-> peer review is not always fair!

-> the paper you think is the best("lots of unique ideas surely it has to be the best") may not be best in the eyes of peer reviewers(clear simple message).

-> have co-authors (specially good mentors), it will help you avoid burnout, give fresh perspectives.


-> you are only treated as good as your last paper.


how to find research gaps quickly and efficiently?

->go to google scholar

-> find recent research gaps (not older)

-> in the search bar, go for recent (2-3 years old papers search by relevancy 
(dont just always look at review papers because that would call out even older papers))

-> look for top conference , journal papers(with high citations) (like CVPR, nature etc.)

-> go straight to the study limitations (or might be in the discussion) section where future research, work limitations, weaknesses etc. will be mentioned.

-> out of all the gaps, try to find the one that can be a "low hanging fruit" as well as the most important gaps you think that need to be addressed

-> there can be several types of gaps such as 
       --> methological gap or evidence gap
       --> population gap 

-> you may collect bunch of these gaps, but it is important to find important, feasible ones
and the ones that you could actually address in your convenient time. so for that, you could
communicate with your mentors about these gaps and have clear idea to execute your work further.

-> take a more systematic approach yourself. do systematic review, write systematic review 
papers(set agenda for future works) and publish that paper in top journal!

-> use gpt (but be careful too!)
prompt example: "I am an early career researcher looking for research gaps that are feasible to address in a short period of time
and publish in high impact journals. can you identify a series of gaps in research on "covid vaccine hesitancy(the topic)"?"




** the secret to finding a winning research topic!
use convergence method
there are 3 dimensions to optimize yourself,
feasibility, my passion, debate itself

connecting adjacent topics
--------------------------
example: connect your choice of topic to climate change, covid, social inequalities, different geographical area(model performance different, any unique attributes between different geographical location data, why they are different? ..... based on different context such as healthcare, media forensics, etc)


op-eds in NYtimes, wallstreet journals look at them to identify the debate! you might find your topic.

researcher has the power to problematize!

go deeper into the op-eds debate by leveraging your research skills!

**forcast the impact of your debate
 observe past performing of a reseach area to forcast what can happen future.


a Harvard professors advice: always go for low hanging fruits first!. you will advance in career for sure.


an example of connecting adjacent topics,
suppose a topic is about migrants access. some one could combine another high impact topic with it for example covid
which would seem like "covid access migrant" and start from systematic review related to the topic.


another example. lets say someone is interested in "universal health coverage"
he/she searches articles related to the topic on google scholar. finds a little deeper topic(from the previous searches) like "catastrophic health expenditures" 


** how to read research papers effectively?
---------------------------------------------

-> the triple pass method:

understand your why? why are you reading this paper? because the reason is gonna shape the type of reading you will be doing.
is it for literature review, for general knowledge, for making a point for writing ... etc.

there are 3 ways of reading.

always remember, experts read for the gist
1. birds eye view. (just skim through the paper (abstract, title, conclusion ... (not mathematical equations .....)) and get the jist before you dive deep. thats what experts do first.)

2. the swoop method: try to swoop and find what is the debate? what are the main research questions? what methods did they used? what did they find? what are the main conclusions? (usually takes 3-5 minutes!) you dont have to read start to finish !! cause its a waste of time isn't it?
so try to be an expert of swooping because thats what you should do for majority of the papers that you read!

3. the "rubber duck" method. (explain a novice so you get clarity whether you are right or there is something wrong)


Save thousands of hours with the following academic reading method!
--------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------
1.birds eye view (95% of the times! just skip through introduction and abstract to understand what the authors did and what was the result?)
even before that, try to realize do you actually need to read the paper or is the article actually even relevant for me to read right now?

2. in swoop method (3-5% of the time) lets say you are trying to do a literature review and so you need to understand different methods that were
employed by different papers. so you directly move to the methods section and extract the critical information from the method.


3. the 1% time when  comprehensively go through the whole paper and able to implement and also which is very much relatable
with your idea. Moreover, you do the same thing while peer reviewing too.


systematic review challenges
----------------------------
-----------------------------

we will tackle challenges focusing on
public health and medicine

what is a scoping review, literature review?

literature review is reproducible.

you need to have access to a database of literature. not just a search engine.

example of these databases are respectively web of science, ProQuest, pubmed, ebscohost etc.
for most of you to publish, you need at least 2 database access( from reviewers)

can you do a systematic literature review by only using google scholar(which is not a reproducible engine.)? the answer is no!! you can't
you might be able to use google scholar as a chapter of your PhD.

to do a systematic review, you need a reference manager which is a must need tool!
a free reference manager tool you can use is 'Zotero'

Steps to do Systematic review
week1. Define your topic (

it is incredibly important. do you know why top university students get good at phd? its because their supervisors are at the center
of debate in their own respective field. their supervisors shape their phd students path right from the very beginning by directing them 
to a very good topic. because if topic is not good, then down the future, students will suffer for sure. so the real question is
how do you define a very good topic by yourself?

)

week2. define your keywords (very important for your review to be reproducible. (because you don't want your search keywords to produce different outputs every time you search right?))

week3. set inclusion, exclusion boundaries (which paper to pick, which not to pick for systematic literature review)

week4. Analysing Data ( the most exciting part!!).

week5. Writing Up! (remember you start writing up from week 5. not at the very beginning right away)

week6. Publish!

how an example of a topic might look like?
bigdata? no no, thats too big of a topic isn't it?

make something like X-->Y (link to something)
how about climate migration and health     (climate migration -------> health) maybe change it to (climate change ---> mental health!)

you try to pick a topic that has >30 publications but not as high as thousands of publications. there is no point in doing a systematic
review if the topic that you pick has very few publications because there is not much knowledge out there at all. Also you don't wanna spend
infinite time on a topic that has infinite number of publications if you know what I mean, right? but it is always better to have more publications
on a topic than very few because you could always filter out the irrelevant ones. I hope you get my point.

so climate change ---> mental health (its always good to convert your topic to a sentence: "the impact of climate change on mental health")

another example of a topic can be "micro-plastic Pollution" an exploratory topic but you have got to link it to something.


you need to make sure that you use the convergence technique for finding your topic.
what is convergence technique? the intersection of feasibility, debate and passion.
always make sure you have passion for your topic, make sure your topic has feasibility aka it can be solvable with in a convenient time frame (for phd students within 2 years) and make sure your topic heavily being debated currently, recently (look at citation rates for topic, op-eds, magazines, do normal people understand your topic) a lot of brilliant phd students struggle later due to not picking the right topic in the first place where mediocers can actually find good topic to become a great scholar later!


remember, if your topic is very hot then you better run hurry because your ideas might collide with someone else.

scoping( aka exploratory ) review is different than systematic review. always try to do systematic review unless your advisor asks for a scoping review.

using the pico method we can propose a well define topic
pico method

P --> population (ex: patient,)
I --> Intervention (ex: Exposure, ) the X of X--->Y
C --> Comparison
O --> Outcome (Y)
optional T ---> Timeframe / typed analysis

your homework:
use convergence method, forecast-impact (using google scholar), use PICO to make a sentence from your topic


In short: A systematic review doesn’t just summarize; it collects, evaluates, compares, and synthesizes research to give the most reliable evidence available on a question.

in short:
A literature review tells you what has been studied.
A systematic review tells you what the evidence actually says, how reliable it is, and where the gaps are.


Systematic Review vs. Literature Review
Aspect	Systematic Review 🧩	Literature Review 📚
Purpose	Provides the best available evidence to answer a specific research question	Provides an overview/background of a topic
Research Question	Narrow, focused, well-defined	Broad, general, exploratory
Search Strategy	Exhaustive, predefined, covers multiple databases	Selective, depends on author’s choices
Study Selection	Strict inclusion/exclusion criteria, documented	Chosen at author’s discretion
Quality Assessment	Critically appraises study validity and bias	Rarely assesses quality systematically
Evidence Synthesis	Structured, may include meta-analysis	Narrative/thematic, descriptive only
Reproducibility	Transparent, reproducible step by step	Subjective, hard to reproduce
Outcome	Evidence-based conclusions, identifies research gaps, informs policy/practice	General understanding, context, and trends
Usefulness	High for decision-making, guidelines, policy	Good for learning background, theory, and research directions

week2
-----
------


















 



